pages/about.md, before:

---
title: About
slug: about
# headerImg: portrait.JPG
---

::: article
::: paragraph
::: text

I'm a software developer / researcher / data scientist based in Munich interested in human-computer interaction, machine learning, functional programming, data visualization and mixed reality.  

&nbsp;

Currently, I'm studying computer science (M.Sc.) at [LMU Munich](https://www.en.uni-muenchen.de/index.html). Previously, I've completed my bachelor of Media Informatics at LMU Munich, writing my bachelor thesis at [Lancaster University](https://www.lancaster.ac.uk/) about Interaction in VR.  

&nbsp;

I've [co-written papers](https://scholar.google.de/citations?user=ZHmZq24AAAAJ&hl=en) about gaze- and gesture interaction in VR ([SUI 2017](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3132180), [IEEE VR 2019](http://ieeevr.org/2019/program/papers.html)) and worked at [Intel Mobile Communications](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/wireless-network/5g-technology-overview.html), [Siemens AG](https://www.plm.automation.siemens.com/global/en/products/collaboration/mbse-model-based-systems-engineering.html) and [LMU Munich](https://www.medien.ifi.lmu.de/).  

&nbsp;

My most recent position was as a Research Assistant at the [Usable Security and Privacy group of Bundeswehr University](https://www.unibw.de/usable-security-and-privacy/) in Munich where I was responsible for the BehaVR lab, along with supervision on topics ranging from VR/AR to gaze interaction, motion tracking and machine learning.  

&nbsp;

Feel free to contact me at
<a href="mailto:" class="crypted-mail"
   data-name="$email_username$"
   data-domain="$email_domain$"
   data-tld="$email_tld$"
   onclick="window.location.href = 'mailto:' + this.dataset.name + '@' + this.dataset.domain + '.' + this.dataset.tld; return false;">
</a>.

:::
::: image
![Portrait](../static/img/portrait.jpg){height="16em"} \
:::
:::
:::

Commit message:

simplified the media querys, fixing the site layout not working anymore after a CSS update. this removes unnecessarily complicated calcs as well. also updated the about page with up to date job inormation (microsoft)

pages/about.md, after:

---
title: About
slug: about
# headerImg: portrait.JPG
---

::: article
::: paragraph
::: text

I'm a software developer / researcher / data scientist based in Munich interested in human-computer interaction, machine learning, functional programming, data visualization and mixed reality.  

I work at Microsoft Munich in the [Microsoft Technology Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/mtc) building demos for our showroom in the domain of Machine Learning.

&nbsp;

Currently, I'm studying computer science (M.Sc.) at [LMU Munich](https://www.en.uni-muenchen.de/index.html). Previously, I've completed my bachelor of Media Informatics at LMU Munich, writing my bachelor thesis at [Lancaster University](https://www.lancaster.ac.uk/) about Interaction in VR.  

&nbsp;

I've [co-written papers](https://scholar.google.de/citations?user=ZHmZq24AAAAJ&hl=en) about gaze- and gesture interaction in VR ([SUI 2017](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3132180), [IEEE VR 2019](http://ieeevr.org/2019/program/papers.html)) and worked at [Intel Mobile Communications](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/wireless-network/5g-technology-overview.html), [Siemens AG](https://www.plm.automation.siemens.com/global/en/products/collaboration/mbse-model-based-systems-engineering.html) and [LMU Munich](https://www.medien.ifi.lmu.de/).  

&nbsp;

My most recent position was as a Research Assistant at the [Usable Security and Privacy group of Bundeswehr University](https://www.unibw.de/usable-security-and-privacy/) in Munich where I was responsible for the BehaVR lab, along with supervision on topics ranging from VR/AR to gaze interaction, motion tracking and machine learning.  

&nbsp;

Feel free to contact me at
<a href="mailto:" class="crypted-mail"
   data-name="$email_username$"
   data-domain="$email_domain$"
   data-tld="$email_tld$"
   onclick="window.location.href = 'mailto:' + this.dataset.name + '@' + this.dataset.domain + '.' + this.dataset.tld; return false;">
</a>.

:::
::: image
![Portrait](../static/img/portrait.jpg){height="16em"} \
:::
:::
:::
